README.md, before:

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> This project follows multiple tutorials on Youtube and internet. It was used to learn WebGL / OpenGL in general. The DEVLOG.md is a summarize of the process I followed. Content in here might not be accurate.

Link to the web page: [here](https://vahaz.github.io/WebGL-Learning/)

### Package:
 - NodeJS v23.11.0
 - https-localhost v4.7.1
 - typescript v5.8.3
 - webpack v5.99.9
 - webpack-cli v6.0.1
 - ts-loader v9.5.2

### Extensions:
 - glsl-canvas v0.2.15 by __circledev__ (*Live WebGL preview of GLSL shaders, did not used it that much.*)
 - Live Preview v0.4.15 by __Microsoft__ (*Hosts a local server in your workspace for you to preview your index.html.*)
 - WebGL GLSL Editor v1.3.8 by __Rácz Zalán__ (*Language support for WebGL GLSL shaders, did not used it that much.*)
 - WebGL Syntax Hint v0.0.2 by __nieyuyao__ (*webgl plugin syntax*)
 - GitHub Actions v0.27.2 by __GitHub__ (*Automate building of main.js on github, thanks to workflow.*)


### Usages:
 - glsl-canvas : *"Show glslCanvas" command*
 - WebGL GLSL Editor : *Edit and compile shaders*
 - WebGl Syntax Hint : *Autocomplete*
 - Typescript : *<code>tsc --watch</code> command to compile ALL .ts to MULTIPLES .js files*
 - Webpack : *<code>webpack --watch</code> command to compile ALL .ts to a SINGLE .js file* (What we uses here!)

### Tutorial and Learning materials:  
(Really great content, go watch!)  
 - [WebGL Tutorial by Indigo Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y2UsQB3WSvo)
 - [Math related video by Pikuma](https://www.youtube.com/@pikuma)
 - [Online WebGL Tutorials](https://webglfundamentals.org/webgl/lessons/)
 - [3D Grapgics Engine tutorial by javidx9](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ih20l3pJoeU)
 - [WebGL 2.0 tutorial by Andrew Adamson](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLPbmjY2NVO_X1U1JzLxLDdRn4NmtxyQQo)
 - [Freya Holmér youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@acegikmo)

Commit message:

Update 3.0 - Added tweakpanel - Changed html / css - Use now a single model & texture - Removed timer function & random rotation speed for objects - Removed pre-defined settings to user-input ones thanks to tweak panel - Update readme & devlog - Changed naming for /dist & webpack.config.js (AI) - Remove unused textures & models - Remove old static geometry - Uses .obj model and objLoader (AI) - Fixed most typos problem in comments

README.md, after:

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This project follows multiple tutorials on Youtube / online. It was used to learn WebGL / OpenGL in general. The DEVLOG.md is a summary of the process I followed. Content in here might not be 100% accurate.

Link to the web page: [here](https://vahaz.github.io/WebGL-Learning/)

### Package:
 - NodeJS v25.0.0
 - https-localhost v4.7.1
 - typescript v5.8.3
 - webpack v5.99.9
 - webpack-cli v6.0.1
 - ts-loader v9.5.2
 - tweakpane v4.0.5
 - @tweakpane/core v2.0.5

### Extensions:
 - Live Preview v0.4.16 by __Microsoft__ (*Hosts a local server in your workspace for you to preview your index.html.*)
 - WebGL GLSL Editor v1.3.9 by __Rácz Zalán__ (*Language support for WebGL GLSL shaders, did not used it that much.*)
 - WebGL Syntax Hint v0.0.2 by __nieyuyao__ (*webgl plugin syntax*)

### Usages:
 - WebGL GLSL Editor : *Language support for WebGL GLSL shaders*
 - WebGl Syntax Hint : *Autocomplete*
 - Typescript : *<code>tsc --watch</code> command to compile ALL .ts to MULTIPLES .js files*
 - Webpack : *<code>webpack --watch</code> command to compile ALL .ts to a SINGLE .js file* (What we uses here!)

### Tutorial and Learning materials:
(Really great content, go watch!)
 - [WebGL Tutorial by Indigo Code](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y2UsQB3WSvo)
 - [Math related video by Pikuma](https://www.youtube.com/@pikuma)
 - [Online WebGL Tutorials](https://webglfundamentals.org/webgl/lessons/)
 - [3D Grapgics Engine tutorial by javidx9](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ih20l3pJoeU)
 - [WebGL 2.0 tutorial by Andrew Adamson](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLPbmjY2NVO_X1U1JzLxLDdRn4NmtxyQQo)
 - [Freya Holmér youtube channel](https://www.youtube.com/@acegikmo)

### Does this project using AI ?
 - Yes, this project uses AI. I ask AI questions about bugs, or how to do things before writing them in the code, so I do not go blindly.
 - The objective is still to understand what the AI does/gives/stoles. The goal is to save time using one so I do not have to look online on 40 forums.
 - I could understand that this is a problem for you. (Everyone drinks water; this does not block the fight to make it better and less polluted)
